Supplement archive for "Artificial Intelligence: Theory and Practice"

Welcome to the supplement directory for the textbook "Artificial
Intelligence: Theory and Practice".  Here you will find sample code
from the book, both in Lisp and C++. You will find lecture notes,
exams, and assignments from classes taught with the textbook. We hope
these materials might guide you in creating your own course.  Also,
all the figures in the book are included, in case you would like to
use them for slides. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Each chapter in the book has its own directory here.

    01.Introduction/    Chapter 1 material
    02.Symbolic/        Chapter 2 material
    03.Logic/           Chapter 3 material
    04.Search/          Chapter 4 material
    05.Learning/        Chapter 5 material
    06.Advanced/        Chapter 6 material
    07.Planning/        Chapter 7 material
    08.Uncertainty/     Chapter 8 material
    09.Vision/          Chapter 9 material
    10.Language/        Chapter 10 material
    C++Support/         A general C++ Code library used for some C++ code
    SchemeSupport/	Code for converting Common Lisp to Scheme
    README              A README file describes the current directory

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Each chapter has its own subdirectories, typically:

    C++Code/      C++ programs demonstrating algorithms in this chapter
    LispCode/     Lisp programs demonstrating algorithms in this chapter

The C++ directories contain source code for most essential algorithms
in the book. However, the Lisp programs often have additional features
or examples. The C++ and Lisp programs are written to match as nearly
as possible. C++ coding was done by Kostadis Roussos, knr@cs.brown.edu
and Jonathan Monsarrat, jgm@cs.brown.edu.

To retrieve a Lisp program from a directory, you need only the Lisp
files in the current directory. See the appropriate README file. Lisp
directories usually have more than just one program. Most Lisp
programs are small enough to fit in just one file.

To retrieve a C++ program from a directory, you need all the files in
that directory, including the "Makefile" which helps you compile the
program. Some of the C++ directories rely on source code in the
C++Support directory. See the appropriate README file.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The files in the various directories have suffixes so you can tell
what kind of information the files contain.

  README     Describes the contents of a directory
  Makefile   Helps you compile the source code in a C++ code directory
  .C         C++ source file
  .H         C++ source file

  .lisp      Lisp source file in Common Lisp
  .scm	     Lisp source file the Scheme dialect

  .txt       A plain text file
  .ps        PostScript file
  .mif       Framemaker interchange format. The same as RTF. 
             Your word formatter might be able to read this file.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

If you have questions or comments about the programs or information in
these directories, you can send your questions to Professor Tom Dean,
tld@cs.brown.edu.


